# Project README

### Objective
This project aims to identify performance differences between conventional and experimental image encryption algorithms. This will be accomplished by benchmarking conventional encryption algorithms (RSA, AES, Blowfish) by altering various aspects of the test images (image size, grayscale or RGB) and then comparing these benchmarks to performance data provided by research articles highlighting experimental image encryption algorithms.
 
### Background
One of the most important sub-categories of encryption is image encryption, as digital images are extremely common for relaying information. Digital images are 2-dimensional arrays of pixels that vary in size (height and length). In a grayscale image, a pixel has one channel with possible values ranging from 0 (black) to 255 (white). In color images, pixels have 3 channels: red, green, and blue. These channels combine to create practically any color. These attributes are significant as they impact the performance of encryption algorithms. As network capabilities advance, the possibilities for communication increase as well. Images are a vital format for communication in virtually every industry; as the saying goes, pictures are worth a thousand words. What’s more, areas such as healthcare, defense, banking and education amongst countless other domains require confidentiality. Depending on the application domain, specific attributes of image encryption may be desired, such as the performance of the algorithm in real-time communication settings (working from home). The foundation of society is embedded in people’s trust in the institutions and organizations that comprise nations, and this extends to these entities’ ability to protect citizens’ information. The protection of data is imperative in maintaining this trust, and this process lives and dies by the effectiveness of the tools we use to accomplish this. As such, understanding what tools are the most effective is imperative, and this takes the form of this project’s objective: to analyze and compare different image encryption algorithms, conventional and experimental, to surmise which algorithms perform the best and if new methods are worth implementing
